Now before we continue I just want to bring up something very important.
So in this course we will cover extensively many concepts and react but also a lot of concepts in JavaScript
because they will fundamentally play a large role in how we understand the code that we're writing.
Now the first things I want to focus on are actually array methods particularly these five map filter
reduce find and includes.
Now we may not cover all of them right away because we're not going to use for example reduce until
later in the code but I want to cover the ones that we will encounter immediately.
So even though I'm showing you these five don't worry if you feel like you don't know them all right
away I'm definitely going to cover them.
Just before we have to use them or whenever we do use them I'll explain it then.
But this is an important concept the idea of array methods.
The reason for this is because we will use them a lot inside of Iraq code array methods are methods
you can call on any array that will perform some kind of action on that array or with that array.
So I will explore that a little bit later.
But the way that you use these methods is you take any array.
So let's say we make a new array called my array and it's equal to an array of these four numbers you're
able to call my array dot map dot filter right Dot reduce dot find dot includes and inside you would
pass it something that it needs in order for it to work.
Now every Array method takes something different which we'll explore.
But this is how you use them.
Now the first one that I definitely want to cover is map.
So in order for us to understand map let's go to our browser now inside of our browser.
We want to access the javascript console so in order to do that we have to right click and click inspect.
Now if you're familiar with the dev tools you'll know that the console is right here.
But if you're not familiar with the dev tools this is a great tool that we're going to use to see how
our web application is either performing or how it ends up being rendered.
But there is lots about this tool that is a very good lens for us to use to see how our application
is doing but for this case we're going to click this console tab up here to go to the javascript console.
This allows us to write and run javascript code because the browser supports javascript.
So what we're gonna do is we're going to disk Claire are array again so cost my array equals an array
of 1 2 3 4 now what we want to do for example to better understand what map does is to understand what
we're trying to get to.
So let's say we have this array.
What if I wanted to increase the value of each element in this array by 1 so that I get an array of
2 3 4 5.
How do we do this.
Well one way might be to write a for loop which we're familiar with right.
We might write something where we loop over the UN or read the array.
We get the value right and then we increase it.
But that's kind of very similar to what map does.
But in a more efficient way plus map gives us a new array back.
So what we would write is map my array dot map and then inside we pass a function that gets called on
each element in the array in the order that they appear.
We actually get that element in our function as the first parameter of our function.
So our first parameter being the element and then whatever we return from this function will be the
value in our new array in the place where that element was in the original array.
So if we do element plus one then we'll get two three four or five because we're just taking the element
from that place and adding one and returning it in a brand new Array.
We don't even have to use the element we can actually instead of mapping with the element right.
We could pass nothing through and just return the letter B and what we'll get don't need the return.
And what we'll get is be in four places where this function was called on each element in the array.
But this is also a new array.
We know this because my array is still one two three four.
So this is what map does.
It lets us create new arrays based on our existing arrays.
And this is really handy and we'll use it extensively when building our application.